(The name is not a mispelling).

- How to compile it ?
Just make machine to build it all, and make install after you've decided
where you want to put it. 

- It isn't fast enough.
If you can, try to coerce root into installing it under his name, with
a setuid.. Then tracker will renice itself to -15, which should solve most
of your problems.

- I can't get any sound out of my machine.
Check that it is configured properly. Most sparcs/sgis have an independant
software volume control. The sparc has a software switch between headphones
and loudspeaker too. Get sure your audio output is getting where you want.

- I still don't get any sound.
Make sure you have some audio hardware.

- I can't get it to compile on my silicon graphics.
Maybe you don't have any audio software. If it doesn't find audio
include files/libraries, that's a good bet.


- I can't get it to compile on my sparc.
If you don't have acc (ansi c compiler), tracker also works ok with old cc.
I haven't been able to make it run with gcc, on the other hand (too much work
for too little result). The option -fast means `use the right options to get
it to run as fast as possible'. -Bstatic  follows the same spirit. It might
not be necessary on your machine, but it helps sparc 10 to output sound at
higher frequencies.

- I can't get it to compile on my PC with unix
Perfectly normal. I don't have any PC to test it with, as the original PC
code was written by someone else. I've tried to keep it mostly intact, but
there might be some trivial mistake in soundblaster_audio.c.
Also, you need to modify termio.c. I think it has to do with getche() or
something like it, but I don't really want to know.
Anyhow, if you write the necessary patch, please send it my way.

- I can't get it to compile on my PC with linux.
Ask hasvolai@cc.helsinki.fi (Hannu Savolainen).

- I can't change the volume of the sound.
That's intentional. There are other programs that do that quite well.
What you really want is an audio control panel. There are some nifty ones
around, just search carefully. There is no need for tracker to support variable
volume.

- The sound output seems hashed.
Your machine isn't running fast enough for the quality you're trying to get.
If you don't have stereo output, don't forget to specify mono.
Get rid of oversample first, this is a big cpu-eater. Then get rid of -show
as well. If that doesn't work, you'll have to revert to a smaller frequency.
tracker is normally aware of the current frequency on the sgi and sparcs,
so if you have a control panel that allows it, change the frequency. You don't
have to restart tracker (usually).

- There are some ``not supported'' messages from time to time.
tracker doesn't support the whole set of protracker commands, so it tells
you when it doesn't play something the way it's supposed to be played.

- tracker stops when playing some files.
Try -tolerant. If it still doesn't work, send a bug report.

- This module doesn't sound like it should.
Check that. be sure you were using the right player on an amiga. If you
still have something weird, you may have a bug. Try e-mailing me.

- when tracker exits, my terminal is in some funky mode. 
Shouldn't happen anymore. It definitely did in the previous version.
Send me some email !

	Marc Espie (espie@ens.fr)
