INSTALLING XMS, THE X-BASED MANDELSPAWN CLIENT

Xms itself should build and install using the normal Imake procedure
(e.g., by running xmkmf, make depend, and make).  You are strongly
encouraged to use Imake, but if you can't for some reason, then just
copy the file noImakefile to Makefile and edit it as necessary.

You should create a file "/usr/local/etc/mslaves" containing the
hostnames of all the machines running computation servers (possibly
including the local host), one per line.  The file "dot-mslaves" is a
sample file containing made-up hostnames.

If you are installing MandelSpawn for personal use only, use
".mslaves" in your home directory instead of "/usr/local/etc/mslaves".
In this case you may also want to create a ".enslave" file for the
"enslave" script, and possibly a ".rhostile" file containing
hostname-username pairs not present in ".rhosts".  You can use the
supplied file "dot-enslave" as a model for your ".enslave" file.

See ../mslaved-0.06/INSTALL for information about installing the
computation server.


PORTABILITY NOTES TO MACH USERS:

If you are running Mach/i386 you may have a broken floor() library
function, causing incorrect colour interpolation.  A workaround can be
enabled by defining the symbol BROKEN_FLOOR when compiling Mama.c.

You may also need to include the option "-chunk_height 16" when
running MandelSpawn with iterations counts larger than 256 because of
limits on UDP message size.

The X-based client program is now called "xms", not "ms", so now it
won't clash with the "mach status" command until someone makes an X
version of that :-)


PORTABILITY NOTES TO SONY USERS:

Sony's X11R4 server for the NWS-1510 with a 4-bit greyscale display
has a bug that causes it to crash when running MandelSpawn.  If you
have this problem, try giving MandelSpawn the workaround option
"-sony".  This workaround is disabled by default because it may have
the side effect of causing certain areas to be drawn incorrectly,
especially in partly obscured windows.


PORTABILITY NOTES TO IBM RS/6000 USERS:

There have been some difficulties in getting xms to work properly IBM
RS/6000 workstations.  It seems to behave differently depending on
whether backing store is enabled in the X server or not, but in
neither case does it work fully.  Any hints are appreciated.
The computation server and batch-mode clients do appear to work on
the RS/6000.


PORTABILITY NOTES TO SPARCstation USERS:

When installing xms on a Sun SPARCstation IPC with OpenWindows, 
the following problems were noticed:

 - There is no xmkmf or imake, so the noImakefile must be used.
 - There is no Xaw library.  Refer to the noImakefile for a workaround.
 - There was a problem with getting keyboard focus, but that should
   be fixed now.
