This file contains a list of bugs to fix and minor feature changes
needed in the Tk toolkit.  The list is ordered by the time when the
idea for the change first arose;  no priority should be inferred from
the order.

6. Fill in default argument table in tkArgv.c, and document it.

8. Change Tk_Uid stuff so that there's a fast way to tell if a
string is really a Tk_Uid.

10. Write procedure to translate from a string to a Pixmap.

20. Change border specification so that instead of giving a width you
can give a string of the form "uudu20du" to indicate ranges of up and
down.  This would eliminate having a lot of extra frame windows.  On
the other hand, it might be confusing for things like buttons:  have to
give separate specs for "up" and "down"?

24. Add mechanism to determine which interpreter has the selection.

26. Extend "configure" widget command to output the type of the
option (string, color, etc.)?  Or should this be done with the class
field?

28. Need mechanism to change the name of a top-level window.

30. Make "." a frame widget in wish?

47. Add new "option" subcommands to (a) query whole database or
(b) query all the option patterns that match for a particular option
(i.e. don't just return the one that will actually be used).

50. In error-handling code, ignore BadWindow errors if they occur
for a seemingly-legitimate Tk window.

51. Add a "contrib" directory for users to contribute various scripts
and other assistance?

52. Should "wm" have mechanism to allow resizing in a single direction
only?

57. Support for 2-byte fonts?

61. Allow widgets to be renamed?

63. Provide way to determine "type" of window (i.e. command under which
it was created) rather than current class?

68. Write manual entries for new exported binding procedures.

73. Provide mechanism in widgets like entry to query whether the
selection is there.  Perhaps implement standard selection target
that returns the selection's window and application?

75. Change Tk_Uid typedef to prevent confusion with (char *)?

76. Change listbox selection handling to return multiple items separated
by newlines rather than as a Tcl list?

77. Need way to delete selection handlers.  Specific problem:  TARGETS
not returning right values in Spotlight:  at different times, same
window provides different forms of selection, but no way to change
the TARGETS return value over time.

78. Can't safely delete file handlers from within a file handler.  Need
to fix main event loop so this is possible.

79. Change TK_CONFIG_PIXMAP to TK_CONFIG_BITMAP in tkConfig.c?

81. For check and radio buttons, change "command" config to separate
commands invoked when button becomes selected/deselected?

82. Eliminate "flash" option for buttons?

86. Change "tkVersion" variable to "tk_version" for consistency.

89. Eliminate hard-wired behavior for scales and scrollbars:  use class
bindings instead.

92. Add mechanism for interposing constraints in geometry management,
e.g. to allow a collection of buttons to all request same width (for
tables) or to provide a generic mechanism for padding widgets internally.

93. Add way to find out which geometry manager "owns" a particular
window.

95. Should "exportSelection" default to "no" in listboxes?

96. Check for memory leaks.

97. Need commands to raise and lower top-level windows.

98. Add Tk command to compute the bbox of a given text string in a given
font?

100. Extend scrollbar "set" command so that arrow increment can be set
explicitly.  Or, change scrollbar interface completely so that the
scrollbar only gets two numbers giving slider position, and sends
commands of the form "foo scroll up1" or "foo scroll upScreen".

101. Eliminate TK_DONT_WAIT option to Tk_DoOneEvent.

103. Get image displaying widget from Paul Mackerras (paulus@cs.anu.edu.au)
and incorporate into Tk.

105. Eliminate the "activate" and "deactivate" commands for buttons
and menu buttons.

106. Add feature to buttons for automatic defaulting, where button
allocates extra space for default ring.

107. Eliminate the "disable" and "enable" commands for menus.

108. Change Tk_GetAtomName to return NULL instead of "?bad atom?".

110. Extend bitmaps to allow direct specification (#0xffff ...)

114. Change default so that windows are normally resizable?

115. Change Tk_GetSelection to look in the cut buffer if no selection
can be found.

117. Implement a mechanism for retrieving just the value of a configuration
option, without all the other stuff (name, default, etc.).  Perhaps
a "cvalue" widget command?

119. There's no way to make a window the selection owner from Tcl.  Add
a "selection own" command.

120. If a selection handler written in Tcl returns an errors, it is ignored
and results in an empty selection being returned.  Change to propagate
the error.

123. Maintain visibility state in Tk and make available to clients.

124. Remove "-geometry" option from all widgets, and use "-width" and
"-height" instead.

125. Set grab automatically on visibility change so Tcl scripts don't have to
worry about this?

128. Scroll windows when selecting off edge of window (do for listboxes,
entries, and text)?

129. Add keyboard traversal to text and listboxes.

130. When redoing packer, change so that space in padx and pady
requests is always outside window area, even if fillx or filly has
been specified.

131. Should new characters in text widget get tags of character they
precede or character they follow (currently it's "follow")?  Or neither?

132. Extend "option" command to make it possible to retrieve the original
resource pattern specs.

134. Allow upper-left character in text not to be the first character
of a line: otherwise, with very long line and small window, won't be
able to view the end of a line.

136. Implement mechanism for using existing window as main window for
application, support with command-line argument in wish.

137. Modify default bindings so that they can handle multiple mice working
simultaneously on different displays (right now there is a single variable
that keeps track of the active window, for example).
