MGR is Copyright (c) 1987 Bellcore, all rights reserved.  Permission is
granted to copy or use this program, EXCEPT that it may not be sold for
profit, the copyright notice must be reproduced on copies, and credit
should be given to Bellcore where it is due.  BELLCORE MAKES NO WARRANTY
AND ACCEPTS NO LIABILITY FOR THIS PROGRAM.

These are my latest sources for MGR including everything I have for it.
Required tools to build it are GNU m4, GNU make and GNU roff or real
nroff, also awk and install.  Coherent people also need Device Driver
Kit 2.0 or later.

Required hardware is a 386 with either Hercules, EGA or VGA, about 7 MB
diskspace to install MGR (src + objs + bins), or a Sun3/4 with
monochrome framebuffer and SunOS 4.1.2.  All files except mgr(1) can be
deleted after installation, if you don't have that much space.

A full Linux installation takes 2.8 MB.  All sources with object files
take 4 MB.  It is very easy to do smaller installations, apart from the
MGR server (136k) you can leave out everything you don't like or need.

If a directory has a capitalized name, I either have not looked at its
contents at all, or they don't compile on Linux at all.  If the name
of a directory is lowercase, its contents compile and have a working
Makefile.  I make no warranty that they also work, they only compile.
The compressed capitalized tar files are worse, not only that I haven't
looked at them yet, I also expect difficulties when porting them.

Installation got easier, first unpack the tar files, then make a link
from the serial tty to which your mouse is connected to /dev/mouse and
then run "Configure" which tells you about the rest.

After starting MGR, when the gray background appears, hold down the left
mouse button, use "new window" and pull up a window.  If these things
work, you can care about reading manuals :-)  For people with a two button
mouse: Press both buttons to emulate the missing middle button.

If you get problems, first read the short README files!  Then post to
the mailing list on channel MGR.

Thanks to:

Tommy Frandsen for the VGA linux library.  Stephen Uhler and all of the
people in Bellcore for MGR, Stephen Hawley for his wonderful icons.  Tom
Heller for his Gasblit library.  Andrew Haylett for the Mouse driver
code.  Dan Stromberg for his input and pointing me to the Gasblit
library.  Dan McCraking for his gasblit->linux patches, btw, I didnt use
them but they were good examples.  dgp@cs.nott.ac.uk for the Startrek
effect fix.  And all the other people that I might forgotten their
names/e-mail address but were very helpful! (Specially those who told me
about the $LPWB incompatiblity :-)  Alex Liu for first releasing a
working version of MGR.  Lars Aronsson (aronsson@lysator.liu.se) for
text2font and the ISO 8 bit font.  Harry Pulley
(hcpiv@grumpy.cis.uoguelph.ca, hcpiv@snowhite.cis.uoguelph.ca) for the
Coherent port, Vance Petree & Grant Edwards & Udo Munk for their work on
Hercules, and Udo Munk for his work on serial mouse initialization &
select, and Norman Bartek & Hal Snyder at Mark Williams Co. for their
help with some bugs & with Coherent device drivers.  This is not the
work of any one person!  Extra thanks to Zeyd Ben Halim for lots of
helpful patches, especially the adaption of selection.

Michael (u31b3hs@pool.informatik.rwth-aachen.de)
