Linux Modem SERVER version 0.04 Alpha

Please read COPYING for more details on the licence of this product.

This is a Testing PRE Release of my modem server.

**PLEASE** DON'T send this out with any changes, send me patch
files if you fix or modify anything, and I will release
it with your patches, and recognition of the patch.

It is designed to do what uugetty does not.

Compiling and Installation

just type 
make install

To make the program, and install the files.

I use GCC 2.2.2d, with 0.98pl0 kernal.

If you have a very early kernal (Earlier than 0.97pl4 I think)
you will need to take out -DCMGET, as the kernal does not
support the TIOCMGET ioctl call to get and set CD, and DTR.

Edit the Makefile to select what log file you want to use
and if you want device logging.

-DDEBUG will send a lot of information to the logfile and
the logging device, but is recommended until you are sure
everything is working.

There are a few config files that are used, the main GLOBAL
configuration fileis in /etc/default/modem.

It is used for all lines, unless a seperate config file is present
which will overide any options.
Have a look at this file for details of the options.

To make a seperate config for a different tty, just make a tty?? file
in the /etc/default directory with the overiding commands in it.

an example is in /etc/default/ttys1

Which is loaded for the modem server on ttys1

Command line parameters :-

/etc/modem tty speed login

eg:

/etc/modem ttys1 2400 bbs

This will Initialise the modem at 2400 baud. (Configuration files
can override this option). and will login as BBS when connected.
If you leave the login option blank, it will execute login
to allow the user to login as normal.

FEATURES:

*EASY* config files.
Specifically for HAYES compatable intelligent modems.
Monitors carrier to make sure Child has quit when carrier
is lost.
Fully UUCP aware, will allow UUCP or EMSI mailers to dial out
correctly, and also allows Termial Packages to use the line.
(Eg Xcomm).
Uses standard UUCP lockfiles.

Coming soon :-

Option to make it shut the speaker up at certain times..
Send a "WAKEUP" to the modem ever half an hour or so..
(Eg AT|) to make sure the modem has not died.
correct utmp updating.
adding mtmp for keeping the current speed/rel of a connected tty.
probably plenti of other nice things...

If you have any probs, additions, fixes mail me
at  :-

arumble@extro.ucc.su.oz.au
