xlander is a lunar landing simulation for X.  The object is to
successfully land the craft on the surface of the moon or some other
planet.  The program features "out-the-window" 3-d wire-frame graphics
and full directional control of the lander.  For further instructions,
please refer to the man page.

xlander is known to work on DECStations under Ultrix 4.2 and Sparcs
under SunOS 4.1.1, compiling with standard cc and gcc version 1.39.
It should compile and run as-is on these machines.  Your X server must
support KeyRelease events (we have yet to run across one that doesn't,
and we've seen a lot!).  Also, we wouldn't recommend trying to run
xlander on a slow machine.

Please drop us a note if you enjoy the game; also let us know if you
can land the thing...  The added third dimension makes it a real
challenge!

Note that there are still a couple of bugs in the code.  Also, you may
want to tweak the "-lateral" and "-retro" parameters if you don't like
the feel of the craft; see the man page for details.

Feel free to redistribute this wherever and to whomever you wish, as
long as our names remain with the code.  Feedback is welcome and may
be directed to paulr@umbc3.umbc.edu or mikef@umbc3.umbc.edu.

BUG FIXES

Patchlevel 1 fixes 3 things:

1.  A problem with the routines that load the resource database.
    thanks to robert@ncc.uky.edu (Robert Lee) for tracking this one
    down and fixing it.

2.  Problems running on servers where BlackPixel and WhitePixel were
    something other than 0 and 1, respectively.  This was an oversight
    on my part (setting foreground and background wrong in my XOR gc).
    Everything should now show up properly on Sun and other servers
    like this.

3.  Controls.  You can now use the arrow keys for movement as well as
    whatever you specify with the "-controls" option.  This is nice for
    keyboards which have the arrow keys on the keypad (such as Sun).

Patchlevel 2 fixes a couple of minor things.  Neither one affects game
play.

First, it adds #ifdefs for AIX and IRIX.  If if you are running cc
under IRIX 4.0.1 or later, you need to use the -cckr option when
compiling.

Also, patchlevel 2 fixes a slight error in the gravity readout.  The
display used to say m*s^-2, but the displayed values were actually in
ft*s^-2.  Thanks to Jeff Moersch (moersch@theory.tc.cornell.edu) for
noticing this one.

Enjoy,
Paul Riddle (paulr@umbc3.umbc.edu)
Mike Friedman (mikef@umbc3.umbc.edu)
