Version 1.1	(5/4/1993)	Stewart Forster
	untcx.c		v1.0.5
		- Fixed statfs code which had the wrong call args for
		SunOs and Ultrix (but didn't make any diff though).
		Thanks to H.J.Lu for pointing that one out
		- Completed AIX port
		- Added LINUX patches, these may be somewhat confused as
		the person who provided the patches did not understand
		the way untcx invokes itself, so they were re-patched by
		me without a machine to test them on.
		Thanks to H.J.Lu for the patches.
		- Fixed timeout code which was resetting inode mod times
		which I was later using to see if file had changed.
		This would only prevent execs from recompressing if they
		had been running for longer than the LOCALTIMEOUT period.
		- Fixed checks on symlinks over NFS.
		- Fixed bug whereby if an exec was run, in between the
		latent stage after recompression and before untcx noted
		that the recompression had completed, it would not get
		recompressed.
	config.h	v1.0.3
		- Removed the need for utime() dependent includes.
		- Added AIX #defs
Version 1.0.4	(1/4/1993)	Stewart Forster
	untcx.c		v1.0.4
		- Added symlink code to handle cases where a symlink to
		a shell script resulted in the shell script being called
		with $0 was being set to the path of the script, and not
		the symlink.  Added stuff so untcx would create symlinks
		in ENFSDIR as well, and manage them (including floating
		links) properly. (I hope!)  Resulting fix results in
		`basename $0` equalling the basename of the symlink,
		although `dirname $0` will be different (unavoidable).
		This problem should affect almost nobody, unless a shell
		script gets picky about `dirname $0`, in which case you
		should not tcx such scripts. :-(
		- Changed the execl for the "unpacker" to pass along the
		pathname of the uncompressor through argv[0], rather than
		"unpacker", which was what was confusing the Unix compress
		system (silly me!)
		Thanks to Lionel Mallet for pointing this out.
	tcx.c		v1.0.4
		- Changed the execl for the "packer" to pass along the
		pathname of the compressor through argv[0], rather than
		"packer", which was what was confusing the Unix compress
		system (silly me!)
		Thanks to Lionel Mallet for pointing this out.
Version 1.0.3	(30/3/1993)	Stewart Forster
	untcx.c		v1.0.3
		- Fixed a race condition bug whereby under SUNOS, if
		untcx encountered a local executable, that had just been
		unpacked while it was setting up, it would get stuck in
		an infinite loop.  This race is pretty slim, but may have
		happened on large multi-user systems.
		- Fixed symlink resolving bug.  Didn't check for length
		returned from readlink, and was strcat-ing strings that
		were not always null-terminated!
		- Added #ifdef to allow tcx to ALWAYS unpack to /tmp.
		Suggestion by Mike Lawley.
		- Added code to unpack to ENFSDIR if file being unpacked
		has a link count greater than 1, so that hard links may
		be preserved.
	tcx.c		v1.0.3
		- Added symbolic link resolving code from untcx.c, to
		allow tcx to operate on symlinks.  Added symlink bug fix.
		Suggestion by Richard van de Stadt.
		- Added code to check for hard link count, and abort with
		a warning if count is greater than 1.  This prevents the
		destruction of hard links when packing.
	config.h	v1.0.2
		- Added UNPACK_IN_PLACE option definition.

Version 1.0.2	(27/3/1993)	Stewart Forster
	untcx.c		v1.0.2
		- Added open file table reference count to internal hash
		tables for SUNOS.  This means that inodes won't have to
		time out before recompressing the file they point to.
		  Thanks to Mike Lawley for pointing out problem
		- Fixed tragic bug in pathname resolution that would have
		caused a lot of problems when a program needs to access
		files in the directory in which it was invoked, and not
		where it lived! Also the cause of incorrect pathname
		generation on NFS mounted executables placed in ENFSDIR.
		Thanks to many who directly and indirectly reported this.

Version 1.0.1	(26/3/1993)	Stewart Forster
	tcx.c		v1.0.2
		- Worked around Ultrix file lock problem on NFS mounted
		files.  Ultrix 4.2 can't lock NFS files.
			v1.0.1
		- Rewrote scratch file creation code to fix Ultrix
		ftruncate bug reported by John Adcock and Joel Fine.
		Removed the need for ftruncate().
	untcx.c		v1.0.1
		- Fixed trailing slash on mkdir argument which Ultrix
		barfs on. Reported by John Adcock.
	config.h	v1.0.1
		- Added comments about not using tmpfs on SUNOS for ENFSDIR

Version 1.0	(25/3/1993)	(Original Release)	Stewart Forster
	tcx.c		v1.0
	untcx.c		v1.0		
	config.h	v1.0
