This is a snapshot of CSOUND Version 2, currently running at the MIT MediaLab
on VAXes and DEC-RISC machines (under 4.0 Ultrix and 4.3 BSD Unix), on SUN's
(under 4.03 and 4.1 OS), and on Macintosh's (under THINK_C's Lightspeed C 4.0).
If you plan to run on a Unix system, then these sources are what you need.
If you plan to run on the Mac, you should ftp the .hqx versions of same.
CSOUND has at various times also run on NeXT machines and HP Bobcat workstations,
but the variants required have not recently been checked out.  Maybe someday soon.

All system differences are controlled by the top-level Makefile.  By editing
this Makefile you can include X11 windows software, define the soundfile
system you are addressing, and include certain device-dependent I/O drivers.

The Makefile can also control the speed of audio processing: electing
single precision floats will double your speed with no loss in fidelity;
even greater improvements will result from any hardware accelerators present.
Check your hardware and software options carefully while editing this Makefile.

The top Makefile requires you to specify the libraries which will receive your
executables on successful installation.  Once Makefile is suitably modified,
installation requires just five commands from within the top directory:
		make all
		make install
		make manpp
		make printmanual
		make clean
The first will install some .h files needed globally by subsequent compiles,
then create the major executable 'csound' in the top directory, along with
several others in subdirectories using their 'Makef' files.
Subdirectories in 'anal' contain audio analysis programs, such as LPC and PVOC,
encoding audio files as control files for reconstruction in Csound orchestras.
Subdirectories in 'util1' contain score manipulating programs, such as SCOT,
CSCORE, SCSORT and EXTRACT; those in 'util2' contain some soundfile managers.

If the first 'make' command is only partly successful, remember that the
'csound' executable is all you need for effective audio synthesis.
You can bypass other problematic routines by commenting out the offending lines
in the lower Makef files.   NO OTHER FILES SHOULD BE MODIFIED AT INSTALLATION.
You should still attempt 'make printmanual', as described below.
Finally, use 'make clean' to remove old intermediate files & conserve storage.

Sound is written to a file in a predefined Sound File Directory, declared by
setting an environment variable SFDIR (eg. 'setenv SFDIR /usr/sound/logname').
You can read/write any of 6 Soundfile formats:   8-bit char, 8-bit a-law,
8-bit u-law, 16-bit short ints, 32-bit long ints, or 32-bit floats.
If you install with SFIRCAM defined, soundfiles generally have a 1024-byte header.
Installing with SFSUN41 defined will enable use of SUN 4.1 multi-media conventions.
Since sounddisk drivers, RECORD and PLAY commands are generally hardware dependent,
this package recognizes only some of these.  If you have a VAX and Digital Sound
Corp DAC's, you should import the IRCAM sound-file system and their play command.
If you have a DECstation and the LoFi board, you can should install with -DLOFI.
A SUN installation can read/write u-law soundfiles by invoking /dev/audio in the
command line.

I have made a small header optional on all control files for LPC and PVOC,
so that srate, npoles, etc. can be automatic (see the lpc.h file).
Csound will read the header, then step over it no matter how long it is.
The idea is to document your lp files by expanding the text in the header.
There were some 'man' pages explaining this, currently being revised.

The directory 'manual' contains ditroff sources for a hardcopy manual.
Its Makefile has comments on what to do if you lack the proper resources.
The manual is very detailed, serving as a Reference, not a Primer.  Its purpose
is to give an accurate account of each facet of the score and orchestra languages.

The directories 'scorefiles' and 'morefiles' contain orchestras/scores of musical
examples, included for your initial assurance.  Some of these are transcriptions
of traditional pieces, likely to run in realtime if your machine is fast enough.
Others are original scores by expert users (James Dashow, Jon Nelson,
Richard Boulanger); usual copyrights apply.
The directory 'testfiles' contain smaller orchestras/scores of tests I've made
in passing.  You might want to check these against the manual for syntax and form;
the task of creating bigger orchestras and better scores is left to you.

I am maintaining a BULLETIN BOARD MAILING LIST for Csound users.  This is an
entry in our /usr/lib/aliases that I normally use for Csound announcements,
and which I'm making available for user intercommunication.  Since this has
induced some confusion in the past, it is now RENAMED:
			csound-BB@media-lab.media.mit.edu
BE AWARE this BROADCASTS to everyone in the mailing list.  Use network etiquette!

For ADMINISTRATIVE REQUESTS (have your name added-to/removed-from the above,
order hardcopy manuals, etc) mail to:
			csound-request@media-lab.media.mit.edu
Report bugs to:			csound@media-lab.media.mit.edu

								Barry Vercoe
								February, 1991
