Future enhacements.

1) The ability to plot data in rows, in addition to columns. 

2) The ability to use the mouse to select the data to be plotted, 
   instead of typing the column and row information by had. Something
   like moving to the beginning of the data, pressing a mouse button 
   down, moving to the end of the data, and releasing the mouse button.

3. The main  problem I have is I would like to use xspread on 
   the datafile generated by sc version 6.18.  I was very 
   disappointed when I found out it  did  not work.  It looks 
   to me that the xspread is modified from an  older version  of sc
   (at least before 6.7, because  after 6.7 there  are lot of 
   enhancement that are invaluable like unlimited row  and column.)  
   Do you have plan to upgrade xspread to be sc 6.18 compatible?

4. I think it was a very good idea to use sc as a starting point.
   However, as far as I see from the code, sc6.1 was the hacked up
   version. The current version of sc which I use is 6.21 - and 6.21 contains
   some very interesting features whioch are not present in 6.1.
   Are there any plans to create a joined xspread/sc6.21 version ?

   I've had a play with xspread and its quite nice.  I think the one major
thing it lacks is a way to sweep out ranges with the mouse.  Also, talking
about defining ranges, I cant get the TAB command to work.  Any time I try
and use it I end up with a range that comprises only the cell that I was in
at the time.

One other minor niggle.  Why do you prompt for each component when setting
the data ranges for graphs rather than using the standard range notation
(eg c0:c11)?

- Especially since this is made by students, teach them to never use
  7-bit ascii char. More and more systems allow 8-bit support so encourage
  the students (and maintainer of xspread) to do likewise.

- Allow for use of paging keys (forward backward, sidways etc) and for
  using the mouse to select regions (In addition you may consider automatic
  scolling but I guess that is more difficult).

Question: I was trying to chance the default character set used by xspread
but to no avail (I used xrdb). Do you have a hint here or do I have do
buy myself a pair of binoculars?

