XC README, patchlevel 3.0bL1.2 KI4N  22 Apr 92
XC README, patchlevel 3.0b JPRadley 6 Jun 91
This file (and every other one in the distribution) uses 4-character tabstops.
The supplied .exrc file sets ts=4 and sw=4, for vi's purposes.

        R E L E A S E    N O T E S

This release is an enhancement of XC 3.0b. But other than some bug fixes,
overall it remains essentially the same except in the XMODEM file transfer
protocol module. This module has been reworked considerably to improve
handshaking and to correct a serious bug in the send CRC calculation.
XMODEM-1K (old YMODEM) has been added as an option. Checksum error
detection has been reinstated as an automatic fallback should XC be
unable to negotiate a CRC transfer. XMODEM-1K will automatically fallback
to 128 byte packets during receive if the sender requests. Other areas
of change amount to a slightly more robust handling of buffer pointers to
avoid overrun. The initial goal was porting this for LINUX but there is 
nothing LINUX specific here other than making fewer assumptions about 
termcap capabilities to compensate for the still developing LINUX OS.
With this release support for translation of MS-DOS extended ASCII
to LINUX extended ASCII has been added. Use "set dos_mode on" to 
enable translation when connected to DOS BBSs.

One thing to note is that the delete code 0x7f is trapped and mapped
to 0x08 (control H) as termcap for LINUX was unable to handle this 
properly. If you are porting this to another system, you may want to
change this. This release was tested under LINUX 0.95c and compiled
with GCC 1.40.


For more information concerning this port, you may contact me by
dropping a note by MAC's PLACE BBS  919-891-1111. For information
on XC as a whole, you should contact J.P.Radley who is the present
caretaker for XC. The rest of this document is his doing.

                                    Thomas McWilliams KI4N
                                           
	B A C K G R O U N D

Once upon a time (in 1985 or so), a fellow named Eric Coe wrote a Unix dialout
telecommunications program called XCOMM.  This program was substantially
upgraded and improved by another fellow named Larry Gensch, who brought XCOMM
up to Version 2.2.  Version 2.2 included a simple script language, 128-byte
Xmodem and Compuserve Quick-B file-transfer protocols, and some other stuff.
Fred Buck then changed the program name to XCMALT, which it maintained until
June 1991, when Jean-Pierre Radley renamed it XC.

XC is a massive expansion and modification of XCOMM 2.2.  Many bugs in
XCOMM 2.2 have been fixed, and many advertised features that didn't work in
XCOMM 2.2 do work in XC.  Also, XC includes a fullscreen dialing
directory; a totally rewritten and much more powerful script language
allowing, among other things, remote execution of shell commands and
unattended protocol-controlled file transfer (provided that your system also
has Chuck Forsberg's "rz/sz" Xmodem/Ymodem/Zmodem program, available free for
the download from many sources), a flexible variable mechanism, including 
access to shell environment variables, and more; BREAK-signal capability; the
capability to upload a file in ASCII from within a script; and miscellaneous
cosmetic changes.

But while XC incorporates much of Larry Gensch's work, it's not supported
by Larry Gensch.  The changes from XCOMM 2.2 are the product of Steve Manes,
who installed uucp LCKfile support and special compile-time tuning for SCO
Xenix, and who wrote the fullscreen dialing directory; Fred Buck, who rewrote
the script language, performed various bugfixes and alterations, and installed
special compile-time tuning for the Tandy 6000; and Jean-Pierre Radley, who
installed the B+ Protocol, used more termcap features, and is now the
"caretaker" of XC.


	I N S T A L L A T I O N

Edit xc.h. There are various definitions that have to be set according
to your flavor of Unix, your preference for default directories, and other
user-definable items. LOCKDIR in xcport.c might also need to change.

Choose the proper flags for your case in the Makefile. Change the definition
of INSDIR, which is the directory where you wish XC to reside.
Typing just "make" will compile XC; typing "make install" will strip out
its symbol table, place the program in INSDIR, and make it "suid uucp". This
is necessary if it is going to suspend or restart "getty" on a dial-in/dial-
out port.

The "xc.nro" file is 'nroff' source for a manual page which describes the
command-line options, the various commands once you're running XC, script
language, file transfers, and the price of milk in Soviet Georgia in 1986.
This file MUST pass through 'tbl' and 'col', e.g.,
	"tbl xc.nro | nroff -man | col > /usr/man/cat.L/xc.L".

The Makefile also has targets for 'man' and 'catman', which can automatically
format and install "xc.nro" for you. There are a few choices you must make
for directories, extensions, and the use of "compress" or "pack".

Some distribution files that you might adapt to your own purposes:

	.exrc		- sets tabstops and shiftwidth to 4, which is necessary
				  properly view every file in the XC distribution.
				  Also includes some map settings useful for handling
				  captures of CompuServe Forum messages.

	xc.init         - sample startup script

        phonelist       - sample dialing directory data file

	.callhq		- sample script for calling a Unix/Xenix system

	.c24		- sample script for calling Compuserve

	.uni		- sample script for calling CompuServe and going to
				  the UnixForum

	.autocis	- sample script to call CompuServe, get any waiting
			      Mail into a capture file, then visit the PRACTICE
			      and the UNIX Fora in turn, uploading any prepared
			      messages, capturing all new messages into separate
				  files, then hanging up.


	X C    R E V I S I O N    H I S T O R Y

Version 3.0bL1.2 McWilliams 22 Apr 92
        Added extended character set support for LINUX by mapping
        DOS characters to LINUX extended ASCII.
        Minor cosmetic changes in help menus.

Version 3.0bL1.1 McWilliams 02 Apr 92
        Fixed bug in send CRC calculation.
        Added 1K XMODEM protocol (old YMODEM).
        Added automatic CRC/Checksum/packet size negotiation.
        Added pauz() to automatically refresh screen after
        displaying an error message.
	Added -w command line switch disables call waiting.
        Added -p command line switch for pulse dialing.
        Moved CRC table to xcrctbl.h         
        Bounds overrun checking on keyboard buffers.
        Map 0x7f to 0x08 for Linux 0.95a compatability.
        Modules affected by this patch level are xcmain.c,
        xcsubs.c, xcport.c, xcxmdm.c, xcdial.c ; Added xcrctbl.h 
             

Version 3.0b Radley  08 Jul 1991
	Elminated mklow/mkhigh in favor of tolower/toupper
	Shortened inter-line delay in script transmittal

Version 3.0a Radley  29 Jun 1991
	Bugs re DIDO ports logic
	Spelling errors in xc.nro
	Added Buck-type CIS macros to .exrc

Version 3.0 Radley	06 Jun 1991
	Program name XC replace XCMALT, by Jean-Pierre Radley

	Ditched nap() in favor of times()
	Cleaned up error handling in xcscrpt.c
	Used NULLS and NULLF where appropriate
	Used same crc table for xmodem and B+ (Mike Barton)
	Increased size of f[] in xcdial.c (Tom Cattrall)
	Introduced XC_PATH (Dan Everhart)
	Won't mistake a directory for a script (clue from Bob Stockler)
	Added "hangup" script keyword (Dan Everhart)
	Forced 8N1 setting on opening port (clue from John James & Russ Ranshaw)
	Cleaned up manual page
	Included 38400 speed
	Deleted ioctl(TCFLSH) from s_exit() (David Kindred)
	Fixed spurious return to dialing directory after B_Transfer (David Kindred)
	Fixed auto toggle after dialing without a script (clue from Roger Chaplin)
	Use carat-char for a ctrl-char in waitfor as well as in transmit
	Added MY_ESC-Q to quit XC from terminal mode (clue from Bill Hobson)


	X C M A L T    R E V I S I O N    H I S T O R Y


Version 2.9 Radley	2 Sep 1990
	Fixed error messages and file opening in xcb+.c when permission denied.

Version 2.8 Radley  1 Sep 1990
	Fixed interrupt handling when dialing from phonelist (clue from Jim Asman)
	Merged xcparse.c into xcscrpt.c
	Fixed backspace handling in getline()
	Used getline() inside man_dial()
	Did away with using /dev/tty
	For cron: do not bother with TERM if !isatty()
	Fixed page counting in dial directory routines (clue from Mike Squires)
	Changed Msg[80] to Msg[SM_BUFF] (clue from Dave Cardinal )
	Fixed a bad tgetstr() call (clue from Per Bilse)

Version 2.7 Radley  12 June 1990
	Merge install.doc into xcmalt.h and README
	Change xcmalt.doc to nroff source
	Add cr_add flag to insert [or not] CRs after NLs in B+ uploads

Version 2.6.1 Betz, Cattrall, Roberts, Scothorne, Radley  13 May 90
	Use separate rxbuf and kbbuf for port/keyboard input (Tom Cattrall)
	Stretched some sleep and nap delays (Doug Scothorne)
	Removed '/' from INSDIR definition in Makefile (Tom Betz)
	Fixed bug in while/do/call script/done logic (clue from Tom Roberts)
	Removed dd_done variable
	Fixed terminal(todir) logic

Version 2.6 Radley  29 April 1990
	Reinstated SCO 2.2 ungetty calls
	Deleted crc setting, xmodem now always done with CRC
	Added auto flag, automatically start capture on entering terminal mode
	Used tputs() for screen control strings.

Version 2.5 George Pontis & Jean-Pierre Radley  19 April 1990
	Use ioctl.h only for the T6000
	Fixed calls to nap() for BSD
	Fixed statbuf() declaration bug in xcport.c
	Included mklow()/mkhigh() as frontends to tolower()/toupper()
	Included NOSHELL option
	Exits mopen() if no port specified

Version 2.4 Radley	31 Mar 1990
	Made all identifiers unique in first seven characters.
	Replaced incorrect references to "baud" and "baud-rate" by
	  "bps" and "bits/second"

Version 2.3 Radley  19 Feb 1990
	B-Plus replaces Quick-B
	Reinstated xclog code
	No mungmode variable; overwriting of a file interactively confirmed.
	No term variable; all transfers return to Terminal mode.
	Added timer.c, to calibrate the built-in nap() code.

Version 2.2	Radley	05 Jan 1990
	Removed XCLUDE termio setting, which locked port on first fopen()
	Change setuid to be uid of 'uucp'
	Fixed set/get/uid routines
	Revised menu display
	Removed xclog code from xccisb.c
	Changed many TCSETAW ioctl calls to TCSETA

Version 2.1	Radley	12 Dec 1989
	Revised all inverse video displays
	Took out more unnecessary routines
	Permitted operation from 'cron' or 'at'
	Fixed some of the interrupt routines
	Removed PUT_TAKE manifest, code for put/take now always included
	Fixed some of the mopen() routines.
	Did away with DRIBBLE, use nap() instead

Version 2.0	Radley	9 Aug 1989
	Added openfile routine (credit to George Pontis)
	Added LIBDIR (credit to George Pontis)
	Used setbuf on local tty (credit to George Pontis)
	Eliminated fflush() calls
	Fixed put and take code
	Deleted SCO 2.2 ungetty stuff

Version 1.0 ...all in or about, oh, say, 1988.
	CD-independent modem opening added by Fred Buck/J-P Radley
	Broken shell-escape mechanism fixed by Fred Buck
	Tandy 6000 LCKfile support added by Fred Buck
	Flexible LCKfile support added by Steve Manes
	Same, for SCO 2.2, added by J-P Radley
	Fullscreen dialing directory added by Steve Manes
	Fullscreen dialing directory tuned by Fred Buck/J-P Radley
	Shell-escape ignore-SIGINT bug fixed by Fred Buck
	Command-mode ignore-xon/xoff bug fixed by Fred Buck
	Script parsing greatly extended by Fred Buck
	"BYE" sequence to modem on exit added by Fred Buck

	Program named XCMALT instead of XCOMM, by Fred Buck


	X C O M M    R E V I S I O N    H I S T O R Y


Version 2.2	larry gensch	14 Dec 87	Major code restructure
	Reduced program and command options
	Added SET command for setting various parameters
	Added HANGUP command for disconnecting modem
	Modified xccisb.c code to support CIS "Quick B" Protocol
	Added xcscrpt.c code for processing script files
	Added SCRIPT= parameter to phonebook processing (auto-logon scripts)
	Added CIS parameter for CIS <ENQ> auto transfers
	Added NL parameter for newline translation
	Added HANGUP command from terminal mode
	Added SCRIPT command from terminal mode

Version 2.1b	larry gensch	11 Nov 87	Bug Fix release
	(no bugs in the code, just some portability fixes)
	Changed "sigset" in xccisb to "signal"
	Removed #include <setjmp.h> from xcxmdm

Version 2.1a	larry gensch	28 Oct 87	General Update
	Added CIS "B" Protocol (c, ct commands)
	Added BAUD= & BITS= parameters to phonelist file.
	Switched some command letters
	Revised command line parsing to use getopt()

Version 2.0	larry gensch	19 Oct 87	Revisions for System V.3
	Changed <sgtty> references to <termio> (modified ioctl(2) calls)
	Changed terminal mode function keys to <ESC> sequences; added
		getconchr()

Version 1.1	Eric E Coe	21 Jul 85
	Autodial for Hayes-compatible modem.
	General rearranging of the code

Version 1.0	Eric E Coe	12 Apr 85
	Program created


===================================


Note: in the original XCOMM file "install.doc", Larry Gensch gave his
various mail addresses for users to reach him about bug reports, upgrade
requests, and the like.  But Larry doesn't support (or in fact have anything
to do with) XCMALT, except that XCMALT is based on XCOMM 2.2, so there's no
point in including this information here.
Fred Buck, who made the major changes from XCOMM to XCMALT, passed away in
early 1989.
Jean-Pierre Radley has since been shepherding the program as it evolved from
XCMALT to XC.

Gripes, bugs, and comments accepted by:
	Jean-Pierre Radley
	   jpr@jpr.com
	   72160.1341@compuserve.com
