   
   NAME
        RLaB - matrix oriented, interactive programming environment
   
   SYNOPSIS
        rlab [-dlnpqr] [file(s)] [-]
   
   DESCRIPTION
        rlab  is   an   interpreter   for   the   RLaB   Programming
        Language/Environment. The RLaB language is useful for matrix
        or array oriented numerical  analyses.  RLaB  is  especially
        useful for prototyping and experimenting with algorithms.
   
        rlab also provides a convenient interface  to  many  of  the
        LAPACK, FFTPACK, and RANLIB subroutines.
   
   OPTIONS
        -d   causes a readable form of the internal stack  machine's
             compiled  program  to  be output to stderr. This option
             should be used in conjunction with `-qln' options. This
             option is not intended for general use.
   
        -l   prevents loading of the rlab library of rfiles.
   
        -n   prevents line number and  file  name  information  from
             being  used  in  the internal stack machine codes. This
             option should only  be  used  with  the  `-dlnq'.  This
             option is not intended for general use.
   
        -p   prevents rlab from using the specified  pager  for  all
             output.
   
        -q   prevents loading of the startup file
   
        -r   prevents usage of the GNU readline library for  command
             line editing.
   
        file(s)
             are loaded and executed by rlab after the `.rlab' file,
             and after the library files.
   
        -    forces rlab to go interactive after all  the  files  on
             the command line have been executed.
   
   ENVIRONMENT
        rlab checks the values of several environment variables upon
        startup,  and uses them to overide the compiled in defaults.
        If a particular environment variable has not been  set,  the
        default value is used.
   
   Version 0.70 beta         26 March 1993                         1
   
        RLAB_RC0 Startup rfile.
   
        RLAB_HELP_DIR The principle directory of help files.
   
        RLAB_LIB_DIR The directory of rfiles to load on startup.
   
        RLAB_PAGER The pager to use for paging  help  files  to  the
        screen. usually more(1).
   
        RLAB_SEARCH_PATH The  set  of  directories  to  search  when
        attempting to load rfiles.
   
   EXECUTION
        rlab is normally executed from a shell  command  line.  Upon
        startup rlab
   
        Processes the command line options and files.
   
        Executes the `.rlab' file.
   
        Executes any `.r' files in the library directory.
   
        Executes any files specified on the command line.
   
        Goes into interactive mode if no files are specified on the
        command line, or if the `-' option is used.
   
        rlab can also  be  invoked  by  using  the  `#!'  convention
        employed  by exec(2).  A rlab script that begins with a line
        of the form:
   
             #! pathname [arg]
   
        where pathname is the full pathname to the rlab  executable,
        and arg is optional argument(s). Note that if the `-' option
        is not specified rlab will  not  go  interactive  after  the
        script has been executed.
   
   DOCUMENTATION
        rlab has an on-line help system, which can  be  accessed  by
        typing  `help'.  A  tutorial  and  a  reference  manual  are
        currently being worked on.
   
        This man-page was not intended to provide a  description  of
        the  language, or rlab's features. Please refer to the manu-
        als, or the on-line help.
   
   BUGS
        Paged output gets hosed after an `out of memory' message.
   
   Version 0.70 beta         26 March 1993                         2
   
        A parser error,  or  run-time  error,  immediately  after  a
        load()  or  rfile  command, will print the wrong source file
        name in the error message.
   
        rlab implements fprintf(), printf() and sprintf() using  the
        C  library  functions,  fprintf, printf and sprintf, so rlab
        inherits any bugs or limitations of the library functions.
   
        Send bug reports to: ians@eskimo.com.
   
        Bug reports should include the rlab version number, a  short
        rfile  that exercises the bug, and a description of the host
        operating system and hardware.
   
   AUTHORS
        Ian Searle (ians@eskimo.com)
   
        Phillip Musumeci is the author of the RLaB Tutorial
   
        Brad Hards is the author of the RLaB Reference Manual
   
        Mike Brennan has contributed some code from mawk.
   
   SEE ALSO
        sh (1) more (1) exec (2)
   
   Version 0.70 beta         26 March 1993                         3
