                       Andrew Toolkit Release 5.1

The Andrew Toolkit Consortium of Carnegie Mellon University's School of
Computer Science is pleased to announce the release of new versions of
the Andrew User Environment, Andrew Toolkit, and Andrew Message System.  

    The Andrew User Environment (AUE) is an integrated set of
    applications beginning with a 'generic object' editor, ez, a help
    system, a system monitoring tool (console), an editor-based shell
    interface (typescript), and support for printing multi-media
    documents. 

    The Andrew Toolkit (ATK) is a portable user-interface toolkit
    that runs under X11. It provides a dynamically-loadable
    object-oriented environment wherein objects can be embedded in
    one-another. Thus, one could edit text that, in addition to
    containing multiple fonts, contains embedded raster images,
    spreadsheets, drawing editors, equations, simple animations,
    etc. These embedded objects could themselves contain other
    objects, including text. With the toolkit, programmers can
    create new objects that can be embedded as easily as those that
    come with the system. 

    The Andrew Message System (AMS) provides a multi-media interface
    to mail and bulletin-boards.  AMS supports several mail
    management strategies and implements many advanced  features
    including authentication, return receipts, automatic sorting of
    mail, vote collection and tabulation, enclosures, audit trails
    of related messages, and subscription management. It also
    provides a variety of interfaces that support ttys and
    low-function personal computers in addition to the high-function
    workstations. 

Release 5.1 of Andrew contains many bug fixes, updates and improvements
in both code and documentation. Release 5.1 also contains a variety of
new facilities, including support for the new Internet MIME
(Multipurpose Internet Mail Extensions) standards for multipart,
multimedia mail.  For more information on MIME, please see the CHANGES
files in the ftp directory on emsworth.andrew.cmu.edu.  

This release can be obtained in several ways.  The sources are available
via anonymous ftp from the Internet host export.lcs.mit.edu (IP:
18.30.0.238) in the ./contrib/andrew tree.  For details, see
./contrib/andrew/README.  

Andrew, as well as a variety of other CMU software, is also available
via anonymous ftp from the Internet host emsworth.andrew.cmu.edu (IP:
128.2.30.62).  For details, see ./README.   For those having AFS access,
the ftp directory is  /afs/andrew.cmu.edu/itc/sm/releases/X.V11R5/ftp. 
The README file explains the directory structure and contents of the
ftp'able software.  Installation instructions are provided in INSTALL. 
See the CHANGES file in the top-level ftp directory for a summary of
changes from Release 5.0 to 5.1.  

Remote Andrew Demo Service

This network service allows you to run Andrew Toolkit applications
without the overhead of obtaining or compiling the Andrew software.  You
need a host machine on the Internet, and you need to be running the X11
window system.  A simple "finger" command will allow you to experience
ATK applications firsthand.  You'll be able to compose multimedia
documents, navigate through the interactive Andrew Tour, and use the
Andrew Message System to browse through CMU's three thousand bulletin
boards and newsgroups.

To use the Remote Andrew Demo service, simply run the following command
on your machine:

    finger help@atk.itc.cmu.edu

The service will give you further instructions.   

Information Sources

Your bug reports are welcome; kindly send them to
info-andrew-bugs@andrew.cmu.edu and we will periodically post a status
report to the mailing list info-andrew@andrew.cmu.edu.  To be added to
the mailing list or make other requests, send mail to
info-andrew-request@andrew.cmu.edu.  

Copies of the entire X distribution software can also be obtained, for
the nominal distribution charge, by contacting:

    MIT Software Distribution Center
    Technology Licensing Office
    Room E32-300
    77 Massachusetts Avenue
    Cambridge, MA  02139
    USA
    +1-617-258-8330

We also distribute the following related materials:

    ATK and AMS sources and binaries on CDROM.  Binaries are available
    for the following system types: 

        	IBM RiscSystem/6000
		Sun SparcStation
		HP 700 Series
		DECstation

    ATK and AMS sources on QIC and Iotamat  tapes
    Hardcopies of the documentation for ATK and AMS.
    Introductory video tape: Welcome to Andrew: An Overview of the
    Andrew System.
    Technical video tape: The Andrew Project: A Session at the Winter
    1988 Usenix Conference.

More information about these materials is available from:

    Information Requests
    Andrew Toolkit Consortium
    Carnegie Mellon University
    4910 Forbes Avenue, UCC 214
    Pittsburgh, PA 15213-3890
    USA
    phone: +1-412-268-6710
    fax: +1-412-621-8081
    info-andrew-request@andrew.cmu.edu

The info-andrew unmoderated distribution list contains informal
conversations between Andrew users and developers. Send mail to
info-andrew-request@andrew.cmu.edu to be added to the Andrew mailing
list (or to request any other service that we provide, such as hard copy
documentation or redistribution of contributed materials). The
info-andrew-bugs@andrew.cmu.edu address provides an easy method for
reporting bugs in the software to the Consortium staff.  

There is also a netnews distribution list,  comp.soft-sys.andrew, which
is identical to the info-andrew distribution list except that it does
not support the multi-media capabilities of info-andrew.


