	      MIT AI Lab Fax Sending and Spooling System
              ------------------------------------------


(c) Copyright 1991 by Henry Minsky and David M. Siegel.
    All rights reserved.

   This file is part of Netfax.

   This software is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
   WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY.  No author or distributor accepts responsibility
   to anyone for the consequences of using it or for whether it serves any
   particular purpose or works at all, unless he says so in writing.  Refer
   to the General Public License for full details, in the file LICENSE in
   this directory.

   Everyone is granted permission to copy, modify and redistribute
   Netfax, but only under the conditions described in the Netfax
   General Public License.  A copy of this license is supposed to have been
   given to you along with Netfax so you can know your rights and
   responsibilities.  It should be in a file named COPYING.  Among other
   things, the copyright notice and this notice must be preserved on all
   copies.


			       Overview
			       --------

This is version 3.2 of Netfax (Completely rewritten by Dave Siegel).

Please send comments, bug reports, and fixes to: bug-fax@ai.mit.edu.
Faxes to 1-617-253-5060.

This is a set of software which provides Group 3 fax tranmission
 and recptions services for a networked unix system. It requires a
faxmodem which conforms to the new EIA-592 Asynchronous Facsimile DCE
Control Standard, Service Clas 2, such as the model " Everfax 24/96 D"
-- (model EV-968-51).  The list price is $499.  The model number is
968-51, and the product name is Everfax 24/96D.  The "D" seems to
indicate that it's the latest one, but John Dyer-Bennet told me to be
sure to specify the model number also.  Everex's main number is
1-415-491-1111 for support(?).  The sales number is 1-800-821-0806.

The system works by running a queue manager (faxspooler) on the host
machine with the faxmodem installed. This program scans a queue
directory for entries from user programs. Users can post faxes using
the fax program directly, or, with the proper entry in the mail
aliases file, send email to post a fax. The user can post files in
ASCII text, postscript, or TeX DVI format. They are all converted to
postscript and queued to be sent.

Incoming telephone calls to the modem are answered, and incoming faxes
are deposited in the spooler's incoming fax directory. Nothing else is
done with the received faxes, they just sit there until someone looks
at them.

For sending documents, a spooler process accepts incoming g3 document
jobs and queues them. A process scans the queue and attempts to send
queued jobs.

Received faxes are currently stored in the /com/fax/incoming (or
wherever you set the INCOMING directory in the conf.h file) as g3
format files. You could use Sam Leffler's fax2tiff program to create
class F tiff files from these directly, if you wish.


		       Other Software You Need
	               -----------------------

You must have Ghostscript installed, with the digifax driver linked
in. See the INSTALL file for information about where to get these
programs.

The enscript program from Adobe, or something comparable, is also
useful to format an ascii text file as a postscript file.


			     Installation
			     ------------

Look in the file INSTALL in this directory.


			 Fax System Directory
			 --------------------

The software sources are divided into several directories:

include:
	Common header files.

lib:
	Various libraries.

cmd:
	Commands.

script:
	Shell scripts.

doc:	
	Documentation of internals.

man:
	Manual pages for commands.

ps:	
	Postscript programs.


			    User Interface
			    --------------

The fax and faxps commands will print an arglist if invoked with no
args.


