More information on XView regarding bugs, help, and documentation

Reporting Bugs
--------------
When you find a bug in the operation of XView, we would like to
hear about it so we can consider scheduling a fix in a future release.
Often, you won't want or need the help of Sun's support services to
report a bug.  When that is the case, please follow the steps listed below.
If you experience problems that require more direct support from Sun,
please refer to the Getting Help section below.

To help us process bug reports as quickly and smoothly as possible,
please:

1)      Use the template bug form in <XVIEW>/doc/bugs/bugform.

2)      Send bugs via electronic mail to  sun.com!xviewbugs.
(Customers with software support contracts who are reporting problems
against using the XView libraries or clients can also send email 
to sun!hotline or call Sun Microsystems directly, 1-800-USA-4SUN. 
The hotline service does not support building the XView library sources.  
The hotline service does provide personal feedback on problems reported.)

Don't be concerned if you have difficulty determining the correct
category for your bug report. We will review the report and see
that it is correctly recorded.

Known bugs are included in the directory <XVIEW>/doc/bugs. 


Getting Help
------------
Sun Microsystems provides support for customers who have software
support contracts via a telephone support line and a special email
alias.  Support for customers without support contracts is provided
only through an email alias. 

Contract customers can also send questions or bug reports via electronic
mail to sun.com!hotline. Be sure to include your name, company, and phone
number, along with the serial number and details of the problem. If
possible, you should use the bug report form discussed above.
 
Those who are not Sun customers or would like to participate in
conversations with other people using XView, can take advantage of
public news groups and email aliases.  Existing groups are listed below:

1) openlook@unify.unify.com/comp.windows.open-look

Unify is sponsoring an OPEN LOOK developers alias.  This is for anyone using
an OPEN LOOK toolkit such as XView.  To join or leave this alias send a
request to openlook-request@unify.unify.com or ...!unify!openlook-request.
This alias is gatewayed together with the comp.windows.open-look news
group.

2) xviewbug-trackers@sun.com

This alias consists of people who would like to share information on bugs
reported against XView.  If you would like to share your bug report with
this group, put this address on the Cc: line of your email message to the
xviewbugs alias.  To join of leave this alias send a request to
sun.com!xviewbug-trackers-request.

3) xpert@expo.lcs.mit.edu/comp.windows.x

xpert@expo.lcs.mit.edu is the mailing list from which comp.windows.x was
spawned.  The two are gatewayed together so that messages sent via either
channel will appear on both.  Xpert is a general alias for all X Window
System enthusiasts.  To join or leave this alias send a request to
xpert-request@expo.lcs.mit.edu or begin reading the net news group
comp.windows.x.

Note:  These are all public aliases which are received by many companies
and individuals around the world.  It is important to conduct dealings
on public aliases with discretion.


XView Programmer's Documentation 
---------------------------------- 
The documentation for this release of the XView
source includes the following programmer's manuals:
 
 
 XView Reference Manual: Converting SunView Applications 
 
 
This manual contains complete instructions for converting SunView 
programs to XView.  It provides an overview of the XView
toolkit's architecture and design principles, and gives
instructions for both minimal and full conversion to XView.
This document will be of most use to programmers who are familiar 
with the SunView API.  If you are not a SunView programmer, you 
should also read the  SunView Programmer's Guide .
This document is included in the <XVIEW>/doc/conversion directory.


 XView PostScript Interface Library


This manual describes how to use the NeWS/PostScript interface library
for XView.  The library is called xvps and included with this source
distribution.  One must have OpenWindows to use this library.
This document is included in the <XVIEW>/doc directory.
 
 
Documentation may be purchased separately:


 XView Programming Manual (revised for version 3)


This manual provides both a complete reference guide to the
XView Toolkit and a basic introduction to developing applications with it.
The examples from the book are included in <XVIEW>/contrib/examples.
XView Programming Manual, O'Reilly & Associates, Inc.
Address:  632 Petaluma Avenue, Sebastopol, CA  95472
email: uunet!ora!nuts, phone: 1-800-338-6887, 1-707-829-0515
fax: 1-707-829-0104


 OPEN LOOK Graphical User Interface Functional Specification


This manual specifies how the toolkit and new toolkit components should
implement the OPEN LOOK graphical user interface.
OPEN LOOK Graphical User Interface Functional Specification,
Addison-Wesley Publishing Company, Inc., 1989
 

 OPEN LOOK Graphical User Interface Application Style Guidelines


This manual provides guidelines for developing an OPEN LOOK compliant
application with any toolkit.  It's a good resource for any developer
adding a graphical user interface to their applications.
OPEN LOOK Graphical User Interface Application Style Guidelines,
Addison-Wesley Publishing Company, Inc., 1989


Also, one will want an Xlib reference manual as well.  All of these 
books are available at technical book stores or may be ordered.  If 
you have OpenWindows version 2 from Sun Microsystems, these books 
are included in the Developer's Documentation Set. 


