Here is the pre-ALPHA release of SLIP for linux-0.99.4

This code will *ONLY* work with 0.99.4.  Do not expect it to work with
earlier or later kernels.

Also, please do not use this code as the basis for any development of
CSLIP or PPP.  It is designated pre-ALPHA because the actual implementation
of SLIP and friends for linux requires some changes to the kernel, major
enough for this code to be completely obsolete.

Work is currently under way on the ALPHA release, expected shortly after
the release of the linux-1.0 kernel.

DO NOT ATTEMPT TO INSTALL THIS CODE unless you are a confident kernel
hacker, it is *VERY* capable of dropping your kernel stone dead.

Best results are obtained with 16550 UARTS.

If you have used any of the earlier pre-alpha slips (0.0/0.1) then you
should remove the config x y x lines associated with those releases from
your /etc/rc.net.  Then:
Patch the kernel with something like the following:
  cd /usr/src/linux
  patch -p0 <slip-0.99.4.diffs 2>patch.out
  make dep ; make clean
  make xxxx  (whatever you normally do)

Then make the program 'dip', cd to its directory and type 'make'
that should do it.
Create a file like the supplied knoware.dip that logs into your slip
provider.  After that, dip knoware should be all you need to do.

You may need to remove the 'reset' command after the hostname line,
depends on your modem I think.  I do.

I have made one change in the code for 'dip' that you should know about.
In the file route.c, line 51-52, I have commented out and replaced the
lines that set the net and router parts of the connection.  I did this
because my connection does all my name resolving and routing, you may
need to change it back depending on your installation.

You may need to make some changes if you do not know your IP address
before you connect.

*IMPORTANT NOTE*
Do not attempt to contact Fred about any of this code, if you do, you will
be responsible for delaying the release of the ALPHA slip code.

Laurence Culhane
loz@holmes.demon.co.uk

